[Music]
cancer is as old as human life itself
the first known written reference to
cancer appears in a 15-foot papyrus
prepared by an Egyptian physician four
thousand years ago he numbered all the
diseases and their treatments known to
the ancient world case number 45 refers
to swellings of the breasts large
spreading and hard under the section
titled treatment it reads simply there
is none the main impetus for for making
the book and the documentary was was to
sort of give us a roadmap of where we
are and where we're going with cancer
research I'd like to describe the
documentary as a kind of report card on
cancer and it's it's not just
documentaries I think of it as news in
some ways you know in our long and
complex struggle against this family of
diseases called cancer we've really not
had a report card we haven't had a time
in which we've sort of taken a step back
and said let's create a way to think
about what's been achieved what but what
the challenges are what the next steps
are in a very global sense all the way
from the basic science to the delivery
of extremely complex new innovative
cancer care to patients you have an
incredible series of resources here at
Columbia that are really unmatched
around the world on one hand we have a
community hospital where patients really
come off the large community that we
have around the campus but also we have
a really a state-of-the-art academic
Medical Center where the capacity to
collaborate with leaders in the field of
lymphoma in the field of leukemia in the
biology of multiple diseases multiple
forms of cancer is really unmatched
there's not one kind of cancer but there
are many kinds of cancers and that even
within
let's say up a particular specimen of of
you know let's say just take breast
cancer or even take her to positive
breast cancer one woman's breast cancer
in a genetic sense is different from
another woman's breast cancer even
though they might share some common
features so one of the large projects
that's going on right now is a project
of determining to what extent do
different cancers share common features
and to what extent are they really
different cancer is not a disease which
is just a cell in isolation but in fact
has a physiological context and to
understand cancer you need to understand
its physiological context which means
collaborating with people who don't
necessarily work on cancer and to treat
cancer you need similarly a
collaborative context in which you are
asking for help from people in kidney
diseases from people who from doctors
who take care of bone diseases from
doctors who are in the neurological
center so I think this is this kind of
collaboration is very unique and it
really plays to the strengths of the
departments you can imagine an end to
cancer and the answer is probably no but
a thoughtful no I think will prevent
some cancers we will treat some cancers
we will cure some other cancers and some
will remain challenges and the diversity
of our approach to the diversity of
cancer will reflect the complex biology
of this disease